Installing and Uninstalling Intel® Network Connection Tools
***********************************************************

This document describes how to install the Intel® Network Connection
Tools on supported operating systems. See the readme provided for each
tool for a detailed explanation of the features available.

See Supported Operating Systems in the Intel® Ethernet Adapters and
Devices User Guide (https://cdrdv2.intel.com/v1/dl/getContent/705831)
for currently supported versions of operating systems.


Contents
^^^^^^^^

* Installing and Uninstalling Intel® Network Connection Tools

  * Installing the Tool on Microsoft* Windows*

  * Installing the Tool on EFI

  * Installing the Tool on Linux*

  * Installing the Tool on FreeBSD*

  * Installing the Tool on VMware* ESXi*

  * Uninstalling Intel Network Connection Tools


Installing the Tool on Microsoft* Windows*
==========================================

To install the tools' drivers on Windows, run *install.bat* from the
appropriate directory of the install package.

Although the tools are not installed with *install.bat*, the driver
that the tool requires is copied into the local machine Windows driver
directory. To run the tool, launch a Command Prompt window from the
Windows Start Menu. Go to the media and directory where the tool is
located and run the utility. The readme files for each tool are found
in the same directory as the tool. These tools can be manually
installed on the local hard drive in any directory.

The tool uses its own driver file (not the same as the system network
driver). If the driver sys file already exists in the drivers
directory, *install.bat* may fail to copy. Using the "/y" switch with
*install.bat* will override and copy the driver file regardless.
However, this can be dangerous if an older version of the driver is
being used by another application such as Intel® PROSet. If a driver
is already present in the drivers directory, try running the tool from
the command prompt. If it runs, then the driver is fine. The tool will
not run if the driver version present does not match the driver
version expected.

Note that you must have access to the "%systemroot%\system32\drivers"
directory. Only the administrator account has these privileges. You
must be logged in as administrator or the tools must be run as
administrator.

Note that on Windows, any device that is disabled in Device Manager
will not be accessible by tools due to no memory resources. You would
get an error code *0xC86A800E*. To solve this problem, you can do one
of the following:

   1. Re-enable the device in Device Manager. Never disable this
      device when using tools.

   2. Install an NDIS device driver for the device and make sure that
      it does not have a yellow or red bang by it in Device Manager.

   3. Delete the device from Device Manager and restart the system.
      The install new hardware wizard should appear on next reboot. Do
      not cancel this. Just move the window aside and run the tool(s).
      Generally, you can click **Cancel** on the wizard but there are
      some cases where Windows will disable the memory resources,
      causing you to get back into the same state.


Installing the Tool on EFI
==========================

The EFI 1.x tools are not supported.

There is no installation required for EFI tools. The tools can simply
be copied from the appropriate directory to the drive that they will
run from. The EFI2 binaries are for use with the UEFI Shell 2.X with
the UEFI 2.3 HII protocol. EFI2 tools will not run on the EFI Shell
1.X or if the UEFI 2.3 HII protocol is not present.

Note that while EFI supports USB drives, there may be issues running
tools from the USB drive. Whether or not there are issues are BIOS
specific. If you experience issues, run the tool from hard disk
instead.


Installing the Tool on Linux*
=============================

In order to run tools on Linux*, a driver stub must be built and
installed on the system. This driver is not related to the network
device driver that is used to run the network during live traffic. It
is a separate driver used explicitly for tools. Due to the nature of
Linux with the number of kernels that can exist, we provide source for
the driver module and an install script to build/install it.

The tools support Linux distributions based on kernels 2.6.x.
Validation is done randomly on popular distributions such as Red Hat*
or Suse*. Configured kernel source that matches the currently
installed kernel is required. A working GCC is also required. There
are some versions of GCC that had a bug which did not support unnamed
structures. These versions of GCC are not supported. If you have
compilation errors, try updating your version of GCC. If you have
linker errors when installing the driver, you should update your
kernel; download the latest stable off www.kernel.org and
build/install it.

Note that some distributions such as recent Fedora core versions do
not ship with Kernel source. You must download, install, and configure
the source in order to get the tools' driver built on this OS.
Installing the kernel source RPM does not solve the problem.

This is the installation procedure:

   1. Log in as root and create a temporary directory to build the
      Intel® Network Connection Tools driver.

   2. Copy *install* and *iqvlinux.tar.gz* to the temporary directory.
      There are 2 versions of Linux supported: Linux32 (x86)and
      Linux_x64 (x64). Copies of the above files exist in the
      appropriate directory for your platform.

   3. CD to the temporary directory and run "./install". The driver
      has been installed now, so the files in the temporary directory
      can be removed.

   4. Copy the tools that you want to use from the appropriate
      directory of the CD.


Kernel 4.16 or Higher
---------------------

On Linux kernel 4.16 and higher, the iomem parameter is set to
"strict" by default, which may prevent the tool from accessing the
MMIO of the device. Trying to update a device when "strict" is set
causes the device to lose link during the update process.

If you wish to update a device without losing link, you can either:

1. Install Linux base drivers (igb or ixgbe) from Release 24.1, or
   newer.

2. Set the iomem kernel parameter to **relaxed** (i.e.,
   "iomem=relaxed") and reboot the system before running the update
   utility.


Installing the Tool on FreeBSD*
===============================

In order to run tools on FreeBSD*, a driver stub must be built and
installed on the system. This driver is not related to the network
device driver that is used to run the network during live traffic. It
is a separate driver used explicitly for tools. Due to the nature of
FreeBSD with the number of kernels that can exist, we provide source
for the driver module and an install script to build/install it.

The tools support FreeBSD distributions version 10.1 and later.

This is the installation procedure:

   1. Log in as root and create a temporary directory to build the
      Intel® Network Connection Tools driver.

   2. Copy *install* and *iqvfreebsd.tar* to the temporary directory.
      There are two versions of FreeBSD supported: FreeBSD32 (x86) and
      FreeBSD64e (x64). Copies of the above files exist in the
      appropriate directory for your platform.

   3. CD to the temporary directory and run "./install". The driver
      has been installed now, so the files in the temporary directory
      can be removed.

   4. Copy the tools that you want to use from the appropriate
      directory of the CD.


Installing the Tool on VMware* ESXi*
====================================

In order to run tools on VMWare* ESXi*, the base driver must be
installed on the system.


VMWare ESXi 8.0 and Later
-------------------------

This release includes a signed package version of tools. For security
purposes, VMWare ESXi 8.0 (and later) prevents you from running
binaries that were not installed from a signed vSphere* Installation
Bundle (VIB) file.

To install the signed package, do the following:

1. Extract the zip file or tarball for the tool. For example:

      tar -xvf <tool file>.tar.gz

      unzip <tool file>.zip

2. Install the VIB file using the "esxcli" command:

      esxcli software vib install -v <path/package_file>.vib

3. Reboot the system to ensure that any changes made by the VIB
   installation take effect.

4. Change directory to the folder where the NVM images are present.
   For example:

      cd E810/ESXi_x64

   Note:

     This example is specific to an Intel® Ethernet E810 Series
     adapter, but the actual directory may vary depending on the tool,
     version, and device family.

5. Run the tool using one of the provided commands. The correct
   command depends on where the tool's binary is installed. See the
   tool's readme for details how to use the tool.

      /opt/<tool name>/bin/<tool binary>

   or:

      /opt/intel/bin/<tool binary>

   For example:

      /opt/nvmupdaten64e/bin/nvmupdaten64e
      /opt/intel/bin/nvmupdaten64e

      /opt/epctn64e/bin/epctn64e
      /opt/intel/bin/epctn64e


Uninstalling Intel Network Connection Tools
===========================================

Run the *uninstall.bat* batch file if you need to manually remove the
old version (*iqvw<architecture>.sys*) of the Intel Network Connection
Tools driver.

On Windows, you also need to manually remove the *iqvsw64e.sys*
driver.


Legal / Disclaimers
===================

Copyright (C) 2002 - 2024, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

Intel technologies may require enabled hardware, software or service
activation.

No product or component can be absolutely secure.

Your costs and results may vary.

Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel
Corporation or its subsidiaries.  Other names and brands may be
claimed as the property of others.

Performance varies by use, configuration, and other factors. Learn
more at https://www.Intel.com/PerformanceIndex.

The products described may contain design defects or errors known as
errata which may cause the product to deviate from published
specifications. Current characterized errata are available on request.

This software and the related documents are Intel copyrighted
materials, and your use of them is governed by the express license
under which they were provided to you ("License"). Unless the License
provides otherwise, you may not use, modify, copy, publish,
distribute, disclose or transmit this software or the related
documents without Intel's prior written permission.

This software and the related documents are provided as is, with no
express or implied warranties, other than those that are expressly
stated in the License.
