Intel(R) BootIMG.FLB file format change
***************************************

August 20, 2024


Contents
^^^^^^^^

* Intel(R) BootIMG.FLB file format change

  * Overview

  * Customer Support

  * Legal / Disclaimers


Overview
========

The BootIMG.FLB file format uses four part Device IDs when necessary
to distinguish the correct NVM image for a device. All utilities and
software are able to read older versions of BootIMG.FLB. However, you
must update any utilities software you use to a more recent version to
use the new BootIMG.FLB. Please upgrade to the following versions (or
a more recent version):

* BootUtil, v. 1.3.5.xxx

* Intel(R) PROSet for Windows* Device Manager, v. 17.1.xxx

* SMASH, v2-2.0.0.58

The current version can be downloaded at Intel's Ethernet Products
information website: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/download-
center/home.html


Customer Support
================

* Main Intel web support site: http://support.intel.com

* Ethernet products information: http://www.intel.com/ethernet


Legal / Disclaimers
===================

Copyright (C) 2012 - 2024, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

Intel technologies may require enabled hardware, software or service
activation.

No product or component can be absolutely secure.

Your costs and results may vary.

Intel, the Intel logo, and other Intel marks are trademarks of Intel
Corporation or its subsidiaries.  Other names and brands may be
claimed as the property of others.

Performance varies by use, configuration, and other factors. Learn
more at https://www.Intel.com/PerformanceIndex.

The products described may contain design defects or errors known as
errata which may cause the product to deviate from published
specifications. Current characterized errata are available on request.

This software and the related documents are Intel copyrighted
materials, and your use of them is governed by the express license
under which they were provided to you ("License"). Unless the License
provides otherwise, you may not use, modify, copy, publish,
distribute, disclose or transmit this software or the related
documents without Intel's prior written permission.

This software and the related documents are provided as is, with no
express or implied warranties, other than those that are expressly
stated in the License.
